Add recommended node practices for CNV environments (#84095)
openshift/openshift-docs: scalability_and_performance/cnv-performance-scale-resilience-practices/recommended-node-practices.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="recommended-node-practices"]
= Recommended node practices
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: recommended-node-practices

toc::[]

This topic provides recommended node practices for a Container Native Virtualization environment to be performant, scalable and resilient in {product-title}.

> 

Author: Hi @dominikholler thanks for the pointers. We typically have all the performance, scale and resilience guidance for various OpenShift releaes under one place and have been sharing this with various users/customers - https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/scalability_and_performance/. Any reason why https://access.redhat.com/articles/6994974 is outside the documentation? Thoughts?

> 

Reviewer: @chaitanyaenr cc: @dominikholler today, the sizing and tuning guidelines for OpenShift Virtualization are in articles. For our next release, we plan to import the tuning guide into the docs. 
It's extremely important that all documentation updates are made by our documentation team, reviewed by our subject matter experts, such as yourself, and validated by QE. Therefore, I kindly request that you close this PR and open a Jira ticket for the OpenShift Virtualization documentation team. Here's a link to open a ticket:  https://issues.redhat.com/secure/CreateIssueDetails!init.jspa?pid=12323181&issuetype=1&components=12333768&priority=10200&summary=%5BDoc%5D&customfield_12316142

> If a node fails and Node Health Checks are not deployed with a appropriate remediation strategy - Self Node Remediation (SNR) and Fence Agents Remediation (FAR) on your cluster, Virtual Machines ( VMs ) will encounter downtime until the node recovers as they are not automatically migrated to other available nodes by default.

Author: Thanks for the pointers @jcanocan! Will update the docs to use recover instead.

> 

Author: @dominikholler thanks for the pointer! So the idea is to not only document node fencing mechanism but also tunings to set the expectations in terms of remediation timing for large and dense clusters ( with various VM counts ) and as well as to improve the performance. In addition to it, we are documenting the capacity guidance to make sure to avoid VMs downtime that we experienced during the chaos testing while make sure the nodes are not over or under utilized. We will continue to expand and maintain it for each of the releases. Thoughts?

> Here are the mitigation strategies recommended to avoid virtual machines (VMs) downtime on a critical environment and for your workloads to be resilient under node failure conditions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are the configurations recommended to avoid virtual machines (VMs) downtime on a critical environment and for your workloads to be resilient under node failure conditions:
```

> * Configure virtual machines (VMs) with `runStrategy: Always` to allow migration to other available nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Configure virtual machines (VMs) with `runStrategy: Always` to allow the recovery to other available nodes.
```

include::modules/virt-configuring-runstrategy-vm.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

* Enable Node Health Checks to monitor the node status change from Ready to Unknown or NotReady, when a given node has not been able to contact the control plane for a defined period of time. spec.unhealthyConditions[].duration can be tuned to reduce the recovery timing. For example:

```
apiVersion: remediation.medik8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: NodeHealthCheck
metadata:
  name: nodehealthcheck-sample
spec:
  minHealthy: <set to 1 for critical environments> 
  pauseRequests: 
    - <pause-test-cluster>
  remediationTemplate: 
    apiVersion: self-node-remediation.medik8s.io/v1alpha1

>     name: self-node-remediation-resource-deletion-template

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    name: self-node-remediation-automatic-strategy-template
```

    namespace: openshift-workload-availability
    kind: SelfNodeRemediationTemplate
  escalatingRemediations: 
    - remediationTemplate:
        apiVersion: self-node-remediation.medik8s.io/v1alpha1
        name: self-node-remediation-resource-deletion-template
        namespace: openshift-workload-availability
        kind: SelfNodeRemediationTemplate
    order: 1
    timeout: 300s
  selector: 
    matchExpressions:
      - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/worker
        operator: Exists
  unhealthyConditions: 
    - type: Ready
      status: "False"
      duration: <set to lower timings for faster recovery, for example 20s> 
    - type: Ready
      status: Unknown
      duration: <set to lower timings for faster recovery, for example 20s>

> ```

Reviewer 2: While this is valid, I would suggest recommending the use FAR as the first option (if possible in the target cluster) and SNR as the second option.

Author: Updated and accepted your suggestions @jcanocan. PTAL when you get time please. Thanks!

> Node Health Check operator supports Self Node Remediation ( SNR )or Fence Agents Remediation (FAR) as the remediation strategy to apply after detecting a node failure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Node Health Check operator supports Self Node Remediation (SNR) or Fence Agents Remediation (FAR) as the remediation operator to apply after detecting a node failure.
```

- Self Node Remediation (SNR): Recommended for nodes that do not have a management interface, or the interface might be unreachable, since SNR does not require one to work.

- Fence Agents Remediation (FAR): Fastest remediation operator in terms of workload recovery time. It also requires a management interface. FAR is recommended when a management interface is available. Also, the management interface must be reachable from the Kubernetes pod network to work.

For more information on remediation, fencing, and maintaining nodes, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/workload_availability_for_red_hat_openshift/23.2/html-single/remediation_fencing_and_maintenance/index#about-remediation-fencing-maintenance[Workload Availability for Red Hat OpenShift] documentation.

[IMPORTANT]
===

> * The remediation strategy starts the remediation after the NHC duration and can take large amounts of time depending on the number of VMS on the failed nodes. For example, 79 VMs with the following spec took 750 seconds to migrate and recover with SNR and with FAR remediation strategy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The remediation actions starts after the NHC duration and can take large amounts of time depending on the number of VMS on the failed nodes. For example, 79 VMs with the following spec took 750 seconds to migrate and recover with SNR and with FAR remediation strategy.
```

> * The remediation strategy starts the remediation after the NHC duration and can take large amounts of time depending on the number of VMS on the failed nodes. For instance, 79 VMs with the following spec took 750 seconds to migrate and recover with SNR and with FAR remediation strategy.

Author: Fixed it, thanks!

> * FAR is recommended if the environment has access to BMC as the it remediates and migrates the VMs quicker when compared to SNR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* FAR is recommended if the environment has access to baseboard management controller (BMC) interface as the it remediates and recovers the VMs quicker when compared to SNR.
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="recommended-node-practices"]
= Recommended node practices
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: recommended-node-practices

toc::[]

This topic provides recommended node practices for a Container Native Virtualization environment to be performant, scalable and resilient in {product-title}.

If a node fails and Node Health Checks operator is not deployed  and configured with an appropriate remediation operator - Self Node Remediation (SNR) and/or Fence Agents Remediation (FAR) on your cluster, Virtual Machines (VMs) will encounter downtime until the node recovers as they are not automatically recovered to other available nodes by default.

> Here are the configurations recommended to avoid virtual machines (VMs) downtime on a critical environment and for your workloads to be resilient under node failure conditions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are the configurations recommended to avoid VMs downtime on a critical environment and for your workloads to be resilient under node failure conditions:
```
You have already defined the term above. You can use it the rest of the document.

> -  Configure virtual machines (VMs) with `runStrategy: Always` to allow the recovery to other available nodes.

Reviewer 2: Same as above.

```
apiVersion: remediation.medik8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: NodeHealthCheck
metadata:
  name: nodehealthcheck-sample
spec:
  minHealthy: <set to 1 for critical environments> 
  pauseRequests: 
    - <pause-test-cluster>
  remediationTemplate: 
    apiVersion: self-node-remediation.medik8s.io/v1alpha1
    name: self-node-remediation-automatic-strategy-template
    namespace: openshift-workload-availability
    kind: SelfNodeRemediationTemplate
  escalatingRemediations: 
    - remediationTemplate:
        apiVersion: self-node-remediation.medik8s.io/v1alpha1
        name: self-node-remediation-resource-deletion-template
        namespace: openshift-workload-availability
        kind: SelfNodeRemediationTemplate
    order: 1
    timeout: 300s
  selector: 
    matchExpressions:
      - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/worker
        operator: Exists
  unhealthyConditions: 
    - type: Ready
      status: "False"
      duration: <set to lower timings for faster recovery, for example 20s> 
    - type: Ready
      status: Unknown
      duration: <set to lower timings for faster recovery, for example 20s>
```

> Node Health Check operator supports Self Node Remediation (SNR) or Fence Agents Remediation (FAR) as the remediation operator to apply after detecting a node failure.

Reviewer 2: NHC could more remediation operators than SNR or FAR, we just tried and tested those. I would clarify this.

- Self Node Remediation (SNR): Recommended for nodes that do not have a management interface, or the interface might be unreachable, since SNR does not require one to work.

- Fence Agents Remediation (FAR): Fastest remediation operator in terms of workload recovery time. It also requires a management interface. FAR is recommended when a management interface is available. Also, the management interface must be reachable from the Kubernetes pod network to work.

For more information on remediation, fencing, and maintaining nodes, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/workload_availability_for_red_hat_openshift/23.2/html-single/remediation_fencing_and_maintenance/index#about-remediation-fencing-maintenance[Workload Availability for Red Hat OpenShift] documentation.

- Capacity planning to ensure nodes have enough resources to host VMs migrated from the failed node(s). It is recommended to monitor the VMs count, resource available -  CPU, memory, disk, network on the cluster and ensure that there are enough resources on the nodes to host the VMs migrated from the failed nodes.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> - The remediation actions starts after the NHC duration and can take large amounts of time depending on the number of VMS on the failed nodes. For example, 79 VMs with the following spec took 750 seconds to recover with SNR and will be much faster with FAR remediation strategy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The remediation actions starts after the node conditions monitored by NHC exceed the time specified in `spec.unhealthyConditions[].duration`  and, can take large amounts of time depending on the number of VMS on the failed nodes. For example, 79 VMs with the following spec took 750 seconds to recover with SNR and will be much faster with FAR remediation strategy.
```
This sentence may lead readers to think that the NHC duration is the only impactful variable to trigger the remediation actions. First, control plan has to set the condition, and then the remediation actions starts after the node conditions monitored by NHC exceed the duration set.

> - FAR is recommended if the environment has access to baseboard management controller (BMC) interface as the it remediates and recovers the VMs quicker when compared to SNR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- FAR is recommended if the environment has access to baseboard management controller (BMC) interface because it is able to remediate and recover VMs quicker than SNR.
```
